Cybertron.
My name is Bumblebee, and
I keep the peace around here.
Try to, anyway.
We have a 2-1-1 in progress.
Get it in gear, Cadet Strongarm.
Whatever we're doing, I am honored.
After all, you were there,
right alongside Optimus Prime.
But...?
It's just, after all you and
Optimus did for Cybertron,
I'm surprised you weren't
made something more...
prestigious than a street cop.
That has to be our disturbance.
In front of the Optimus statue!
- That punk is going down.
- That punk is Sideswipe,
and while he's about as
exciting as this job gets,
he's not actually dangerous.
I'll just...
- Sir? What is it?
- D-Do you see that?
That's okay, Lieutenant, you meditate.
I'll handle this perp.
Optimus?
Earth?
Stop, or I'll...
Eat my exhaust? Whoo!
- Whoo! All right! Ha, ha, yeah!
- Pull over!
Oof.
W-What?
You crazy?
Optimus Prime!
Lieutenant!
No!
Optimus...
Lieutenant, are you talking
to the statue's head?
Brain rust.
- So sad.
- Show some respect!
You can't turn left on Cybertron
without breaking some law.
Cadet Strongarm, take Sideswipe
down to the station for processing.
- Seriously?
- Sir, ride-along regulation
201, section 4, requires that I...
Uh, I'll meet you there.
Good plan, sir.
Wha...?
- Rusty!
- It's Russell.
Come on, son.
You're not that grown up. Not yet.
Hey, we're going to
have a blast and a half
- while you're mom's away working in...
- Copenhagen?
You know, a real city?
Like the one across the river?
I never get into Crown City.
I... We have everything
we need right here.
- Except excitement.
- Aw, Rust... Russell.
I still have a lot of the stuff
you used to love playing with.
Because you won't sell anything.
And check this out.
It's the 14th Street Diner.
They were gonna tear it down,
so I had it moved here piece by piece.
Isn't it awesome?
It's kinda weird.
Like living in a scrap yard.
Please. Vintage salvage depot
for the discriminating nostalgist.
W-Was that an earthquake?
Uhh.
May-d-d-day.
M-Mayday.
Welcome to the Cybertron History Museum.
- Do you need a map?
- No, thank you.
A Space Bridge.
Are these Earth coordinates?
Bumblebee.
I knew you would understand.
Optimus? Is it really you?
Where are you?
I need you on Earth, Bumblebee.
A new mission. A dire threat.
Me?
Go there, and we shall speak again.
- Can't you tell me...
- Lieutenant?
Please take me to jail!
This place is so much worse.
- Strongarm, I told you to...
- With all due respect, sir,
regulation 201, section 4:
a ride-along shall accompany
Okay.
I've been following a trail.
One that you two apparently can't see.
A trail laid out for me by...
Optimus Prime.
- The Optimus Prime?
- Who is no longer alive?
Optimus Prime wants to send
us to Earth? I am so, so in!
No, you're out.
It's a mission for me. Alone.
Ah, guards.
I'll keep them busy.
Please see if there's a way
to disable those stasis
fields around the Space Bridge.
Tampering with museum property?
Sir, you know that violates
Protocol Section 116, Paragraph...
He's Bumblebee.
He must have a good reason, right?
You're a punk.
You know how to take out
- security systems, don't you?
- No!
Maybe.
Experts say the tremor downtown
Crown City just experienced
was from a low-level sonic
boom just across the river.
Scientists suspect
a meteor might have finished
burning up while passing
through Earth's atmosphere.
Meteor?
Exploration time.
You mean "wander through the woods
looking for a sliver of rock
that probably isn't there" time?
We'll have to go treasure hunting later.
That's my 9:00 a.m.
He wants to sell a full
set of life-size aluminum
Billy the Breakfast Beaver figures.
Wanna help your old man close the deal?
Uh, why don't I go see
if I can find that meteor?
Divide and conquer.
Great plan.
Okay, stay calm, speak clearly.
Mayday.
Mayday, Cybertron Control.
If you can hear me,
this is maximum security
prison ship Alchemor.
We have crashed on an unknown planet.
Many of the containment
pods were disengaged,
but the one I can see
still appears to be intact,
so I'm hopeful none
of the prisoners has...
Uh, Control?
Updating that last report...
- Hey, all clear back there.
- Wait, aren't you... Bumblebee?
- You're working here now?
- Yeah, just started today.
- No, disable that relay.
- Don't touch!
- You guys are the real heroes.
- What's going on?
Intruder doing a bad
impersonation of Bumblebee.
- Send backup.
- Bad impersonation? Uhh!
Optimus?
Could we maybe move that
next chat up to right now?
Take it easy. Mine's set on stun.
- Lieutenant Bumblebee, we did it.
- No, I did it.
And with a giant paperweight
strapped to my arm.
Thank you both.
Now stand back.
Strongarm, tell the guards
you tried to stop me.
Sideswipe, find another hobby.
Okay?
Earth.
Earth!
What are you doing?
What's he doing here?
Oh. The punk...
Forgot all about him.
Look, I can't be responsible
for you both while I'm...
Strongarm, go back through!
The Space Bridge is gonna close any...
- Sir, ride-along regs. I'm with you.
- Uncuff Sideswipe!
- Yeah, uncuff Sideswipe!
- I know I have violated protocol,
and I will fill out all
the paperwork when...
- Move it, Sideswipe!
- Back to hassle planet Cybertron?
Forget that.
And forget you two.
And I'm stranded on
Earth with two teenagers.
Let's get after him.
- I can't believe I'm really here, sir!
- Me either.
_
Long time ago.
Mayday.
For the 342nd time, mayday.
This is Fixit, caretaker Mini-Con
for the Cybertron max-security
prison ship Alchemor,
still on doo-doo.
Doo-doo?
Duty, ma'am.
Oh, it's so good to see Cybertronian
grills after all these years!
W-Where's your squadron?
I'm afraid we're it.
We didn't know you'd be here.
I'm Lieutenant Bumblebee.
This is Cadet Strongarm.
I'm Fixit, sir. And this is...
uh, was the prison ship Alchemor,
bearing Cybertron's
most wanted Decepticons.
Now, I've reconned the crash site,
and we're missing most
of our stasis cells.
Several nearby have ruptured,
their inmates are presumably at large.
- How many is several?
- Oh, a couple of hundred.
In fact, this is the only pod
still intactition. Intachometer.
Unh. Intact.
And its cryo-stasis mechanism
- may be a wee bit damaged too.
- Fixit?
Right. Uh, tracking
system just rebooted, sir.
I can't lock onto the
prisoners' locator chips
but I'm definitely getting
a Cybertronian life signal.
Odds are it's a fooditive.
Uh, fugitive!
Uh, more likely it's Sideswipe.
All right, Fixit, stay
here and continue repairs.
Strongarm, with me.
You're leaving? But I don't
know your favorite colors.
And you don't know mine.
It's red! Call me!
Hello!
- What are you?
What is that?!
This isn't happening.
Nothing happens here.
Nothing like this happens anywhere!
Hey, crazy meeting someone else
from Cybertron way out here.
A Decepticon. That's cool.
Be ready to roll.
I'm Sideswipe.
And you are?
Underbite.
Heard of me?
- You ever been to Nuon City?
- No...
That's 'cause I ate it!
Little more juice never hurt anyone.
Ah.
Oh, yeah.
Beautiful!
Aren't there any clearings
on this stupid planet?
Follow me!
Wait.
Now we're out in the open.
- How's this better?
- Now I have room to do this.
Whoa...
Yeah, transforming into a car
will make a huge difference.
Hello!
I ate a whole city!
- Get in.
- To you?
Come here!
- Seat belt?
- You're gonna need it.
Aah!
I knew that if I worked
hard and followed the rules,
I might someday receive
an assignment on Earth.
Sideswipe just caught
a break he doesn't deserve.
First of all, this isn't
an assignment, Strongarm,
it's a mistake.
Second, go easy on Sideswipe.
He's an okay kid, he just needs
some guidance, and...
Wonderful. We've been
here less than an hour,
and he's already revealed
himself to a human.
Oh, so that's a human?
Run!
I know what you're thinking.
Is that tall, dark and handsome really
Underbite, devourer of Nuon City?
No one recognizes me?
Sideswipe, what did you say to him?
Hey, you're back!
- Human!
- Russell.
Get behind that stasis cell.
Fixit, stay with him.
What's a stasis cell?
I hear fighting!
Who's fighting? I wanna fight!
- Back in your cell. Back!
- Ow!
Watch it. Look out.
Strongarm, Sideswipe, fan out!
Ah, my old stasis pod.
Should give me a little boost.
Mmm...
Feeling the burn!
Hey.
Aren't you Underbite,
the 'Con who ate that city?
Finally! What gave me away?
- The muscles?
- The smell.
How's that smell, you little...
Huh? Where'd he go?
Mm...
Heading for hugeness...
Fixit, I assume that was one
of your escaped prisoners.
- Fixit?
- Yes, sir.
A Chompazoid named Underbite.
The more metal a Chompazoid consumes,
- the more powerful it becomes.
- So it's not good
that he's headed for
a metal graveyard, then.
If Underbite gets all
that into his jaws,
we'll never bring him down.
Wait, do you mean the scrap yard?
My Dad's in there!